So, in order to start work
on our doggo fetching,
we're going to talk about
another type of loop.
So this is loop on loops,
you could say [LAUGH].
And as Cardi B says, sometimes we have
to keep replaying and replaying and
replaying something.
And sometimes we don't want to,
we want to not loop over
a certain number of iterations.
We want to loop over and
over and over and over again,
until something changes and
we want to stop looping.
So, we have another construct for
loops in JavaScript called while loops.
And while loops allow us to keep running
a chunk of code over and over and
over again, replaying,
replaying, replaying it.
Until a certain condition
that we give the loop,
similar to a condition we give
our if statements, right?
Until that condition is no longer true.
So as long as the condition that
I give a while loop is true,
the while loop is gonna keep replaying
that chunk of code inside of its block,
inside of its curly braces.
So in this case, I have a while loop
that is basically populating an array.
I have an empty array that's called
five random numbers, which is kind
of a misnomer at the beginning
because it has zero numbers in it.
And then I have a while loop
that's basically saying,
okay, while or
as long as the length of the five
random numbers array is less than five,
push a new random number into the array.
So by the time this is done running,
my five random numbers will no
longer be a lie, and we actually
will have five numbers in our array.
So let's go to the console and
prove it to ourselves.
Okay so, if I create my five random
numbers array, it's empty at the moment.
And when I run my while loop,
we're going to see something
else happen to the array.
And now if I asked for
five random numbers,
we can see that it actually
did do what I asked.
It pushed five different random
numbers because it called math.random
five times into the array.
What do you think happens if I run it
again, if I run my while loop again.
Am I gonna push five more
random numbers into the array?
>> Yes.
>> No.
>> I think so.
>> Yes, no, we have bets on both horses.
So let's find out, let's run it,
see what happens, five random numbers.
It still only has those five numbers, why?
Because while loops care
about a condition, and
the condition that I've given it here is
isfiverandomnumbers.length<than five.
If so, run the while loop,
run this chunk of code, and
when I ran it that second time, even
before we ever did a new math.randomcall.
The length of the array was already five,
so not less than five.
So we didn't actually execute
the line of code in the while loop.
So it's kind of, like a conditional
loop you could think of it as.
While can be dangerous, so
if you like chaos and destruction and
not being able to use your browser or
computer in some cases.
Do not put a true value that
is always true, like for
example the Boolean true
in the while condition.
Because, what will happen is
since true is always true,
JavaScript is just gonna keep blogging,
I am wasting resources infinitely forever.
Until your browser and or
entire system crashes,
or your browser says hey,
I'm gonna stop this JavaScript
because it's doing something
they shouldn't be doing.
So, if you want to watch
the world burn like Elmo, go for
it but I do not recommend you copy and
paste this line of code, I should have
disabled the copy button [LAUGH].